Sharing and guests (#83)
owncloud/docs-webui: modules/classic_ui/pages/files/webgui/sharing.adoc

{latest-server-version}@server:user_manual:files/webgui/sharing.adoc, \
{previous-server-version}@server:user_manual:files/webgui/sharing.adoc

:description: Clicking the share icon on any file or folder opens the Details view on the right, where the Share tab has focus.

== Introduction

{description}

== Sharing Status Icons

Any folder that has been shared is marked with the `Shared` overlay icon. Public link shares are marked with a chain link. Unshared folders are blank.

image::files_page-5.png[Share status icons,width=350]

If your ownCloud server is the Enterprise edition, you may also have access to Sharepoint and Windows Network Drive file shares. These have special status icons. An icon with a red plugin and background means you have to login to get access to the share.

image::files_share-options.png[image,width=350]

== Creating Shares

> * For sharing a file or folder there is a text field below the Share tab. In this sharing dialog, you can enter multiple users at once using their identifiers (e.g., display name, user ID, email address, federated cloud ID) as a comma-separated list (e.g., `alice,\bob@example.org,carol`. Based on the inputs, ownCloud will decide how to create the shares (e.g., share with an internal user, invite a new guest, create a federated share). This way, users can easily invite many recipients at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For sharing a file or folder there is a text field below the Share tab. In this sharing dialog, you can enter multiple users at once using their identifiers (e.g., display name, user ID, email address, federated cloud ID) as a comma-separated list (e.g., `alice,bob@example.org,carol`. Based on the inputs, ownCloud will decide how to create the shares (e.g., share with an internal user, invite a new guest, create a federated share). This way, users can easily invite many recipients at once.
```

> * To share a file or folder, immediately below the Share tab, you will see a text field. In this field, you can share with multiple users at once by entering their identifiers (e.g., display name, user ID, email address, federated cloud ID) as a comma-separated list in the sharing dialog (e.g., `alice,\bob@example.org,carol`. Based on the inputs, ownCloud will decide how to create the shares (e.g., share with an internal user, invite a new guest, create a federated share). This way, users can easily invite many recipients at once.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To share a file or folder, immediately below the Share tab, you will see a text field. In this field, you can share with multiple users at once by entering their identifiers (e.g., display name, user ID, email address, federated cloud ID) as a comma-separated list in the sharing dialog (e.g., `alice,bob@example.org,carol`. Based on the inputs, ownCloud will decide how to create the shares (e.g., share with an internal user, invite a new guest, create a federated share). This way, users can easily invite many recipients at once.
```

image::files_page-2.png[Sharing files,width=450]

=== What Happens When Share Recipients Move Files and Folders?

If a share recipient has "**can edit**" privileges and moves files or folders out of the share, ownCloud stores a backup copy of the moved file/folder in the Deleted Files (Trash) of the share’s owner. The user who moved the file/folder out of the share still has the original copy there, along with its attached metadata.

That way, the files/folders are not permanently lost. By clicking the btn:[Restore] link, next to the respective file or folder, ownCloud will restore these files/folders to their original location.

image::sharing/restore-files.png[Restore (backup) files from the Deleted Files directory,width=450]

NOTE: Restoring files restores the backup copy for *all users*, including the user that originally moved them, into the original folder.

=== Sharing Files with Guest Users

Users can also share files and folders with guest users. To do so, your ownCloud administrator will need to have installed the {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/guests[Guest application].

> If it’s already installed, in the `**User and Groups**` field of the `**Sharing**` panel, type the email address of a user who is not already a user in your ownCloud installation. Note that the ownCloud admin can exclude  domains. You will then see a popup appear with the suffix `(guest)`, as in the screenshot below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If it’s already installed, in the `**User and Groups**` field of the `**Sharing**` panel, type the email address of a user who is not already a user in your ownCloud installation. Note that the ownCloud admin can exclude domains. You will then see a popup appear with the suffix `(guest)`, as in the screenshot below.
```

image::guest-users/share-with-guest-users.png[Sharing with guest users,width=350]

After you do that, the content will be shared with the user with all permissions applied, except for the ability to share with other users.

image::guest-users/content-shared-with-guest-user.png[Content shared with a guest user,width=400]

NOTE: Guest users can also use the **Desktop/IOS/Android Sync Clients** to access synced files locally.

== Updating Shares

> To change any of the properties of a share, again, you first need to view the Share tab. From there, you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change any of the properties of a share, you need to open the Share tab again. From there, you can:
```

* Delete a user’s access to a share
* Give more users access to a share
* Change a user’s share permissions
* Add or remove password protection
* Set or remove a share’s expiration date

> This functionality is already described in other parts of this documentation and won’t be specifically covered here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality is already described in other parts of this documentation and won’t be covered in more detail here.
```

== Deleting Shares

> Despite the name of this section, you don’t actually delete a share. Rather what you do is remove the access of user’s to whom it’s already been shared with. When all users access to a shared resource has been removed, the resource is no longer shared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite the name of this section, the content of shares is not really deleted, but access of users revoked. When all users' access to a shared resource has been removed, the resource is no longer shared.
```

To do that, you need to click on the btn:[rubbish bin] icon, on the far right-hand side of the name of each user it’s been shared with, who should no longer have access to it.

== Renaming Shares

> Both the sharer _and_ all share recipients can rename a share at any time. However, when one user renames a share, it only renames their version; no other users see the new share name. Essentially, the share name remains the same for all other users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the sharer _and_ all share recipients can rename a share at any time. However, when one user renames a share, it only renames their version; other users don't see the new share name but the original one.
```

== Password Protecting Files

> It’s also possible to password protect shared files and folders. If you want to do so, then you need to enable this functionality. Specifically, click the checkbox labeled btn:[Password protect] under the "_Share Link_" section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s also possible to password protect shared files and folders. If you want to do so, then you need to enable this functionality. Click the checkbox labeled btn:[Password protect] under the "_Share Link_" section.
```

> When you do so, you’ll see a password field appear. In there, add the password that the user will need to enter to access the shared resource and press the return key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A password field appears. Enter the password that the user will need to access the shared resource and press the return key.
```

== Using Private Links

> Another way to access a file or folder is via a private link. It’s a handy way of creating a permanent link for yourself or to point others to a file or folder, within a share, more efficiently. To access the private link, in the Sharing Panel for a file or folder, next to its name you’ll see a small link icon (1), as in the screenshot below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to access a file or folder is via a private link. It’s a convenient way of creating a permanent link for yourself or to point others to a file or folder within a share. To access the private link, in the Sharing Panel for a file or folder next to its name you’ll see a small link icon (1) as in the screenshot below.
```

image::public-link/private-link.png[Obtaining a private link for a shared file or folder,width=350]

If you click it, a new textbox will appear above the "**Collaborative tags**" field, populated with the link’s URI (2).

NOTE: Only people who have access to the file or folder can use the link.

== Changing The Share Expiration Date

> You can set an expiration date on any of user, group, federated and public link shares. The administrator may have set a default expiration for shares. If so, then new shares will have the default expiration. You may adjust or remove the expiration date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set an expiration date on any user, group, federated and public link shares. The administrator may have set a default expiration for shares. If so, then new shares will have the default expiration. You may adjust or remove the expiration date.
```

The administrator may have enforced the default expiration to be the maximum expiration. In that case, you must set an expiration date less than or equal to the maximum.

> The share will expire at the end of the specified expiration date. Users of the share will no longer be able to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The share will expire at the end of the specified expiration date. Recipients of the share will no longer be able to access it.
```

== Creating or Connecting to Federation Share Links

> Federated Cloud Sharing allows you to mount file shares from remote ownCloud servers, and manage them just like a local share. See xref:files/federated_cloud_sharing.adoc[Using Federation Shares] to learn to how to create and connect to new Federated Cloud shares.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Federated Cloud Sharing allows you to mount file shares from remote ownCloud servers, and manage them just like a local share. See xref:files/federated_cloud_sharing.adoc[Using Federation Shares] to learn how to create and connect to new Federated Cloud shares.
```

> Federated Cloud Sharing allows you to mount file shares from remote ownCloud servers, and manage them just like a local share. In ownCloud 8 the process for creating a new sharing link is easier and more streamlined. See xref:files/federated_cloud_sharing.adoc[Using Federation Shares] to learn to how to create and connect to new Federated Cloud shares.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Federated Cloud Sharing allows you to mount file shares from remote ownCloud servers, and manage them just like a local share. See xref:files/federated_cloud_sharing.adoc[Using Federation Shares] to learn to how to create and connect to new Federated Cloud shares.
```

IMO we could remove this reference to oC8 now.

> Federated Cloud Sharing allows you to mount file shares from remote ownCloud servers, and manage them just like a local share. In ownCloud 8 the process for creating a new sharing link is easier and more streamlined. See xref:files/federated_cloud_sharing.adoc[Using Federation Shares] to learn to how to create and connect to new Federated Cloud shares.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Federated Cloud Sharing allows you to mount file shares from remote ownCloud servers and manage them just like a local share. In ownCloud 8 the process for creating a new sharing link is easier and more streamlined. See xref:files/federated_cloud_sharing.adoc[Using Federation Shares] to learn more about to how to create and connect to new Federated Cloud shares.
```

== Share Permissions

Shares can have a combination of the following five permission types:

[cols="15%,70%",options="header",]
|===
| Permission
| Definition

| can share
| Allows the users you share with to re-share

| can edit

> | Allows the users you share with to edit your shared files, and to collaborate using the Documents app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Allows the users you share with to edit your shared files and to collaborate using the Documents app
```

| create
| Allows the users you share with to create new files and add them to the share

| change
| Allows uploading a new version of a shared file and replacing it

| delete
| Allows the users you share with to delete shared files
|===

== Creating Drop Folders

> As of ownCloud version 10.0.2, users can create upload-only, public shares (otherwise known as "Drop Folders"). Drop Folders allow users to upload files to a central location, but don’t allow them to either see or change any existing files, which already have been uploaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of ownCloud version 10.0.2, users can create upload-only, public shares (otherwise known as "Drop Folders"). Drop Folders allow users to upload files to a central location, but don’t allow them to either see or change any existing files, which have already been uploaded.
```

image::sharing/create-drop-folder.png[Create a Drop Folder,width=350]

To create one:

> 1. View the sharing panel of the folder that you want to share as a Drop Folder, select menu:Public Links[Create public link].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. View the sharing panel of the folder that you want to share as a drop folder, select menu:Public Links[Create public link].
```

2. As with other shares, provide the name in the *"Link Name"* field.
3. Check btn:[Allow editing], un-check btn:[Show file listing], and then un-check btn:[Allow editing].
4. Finally, click btn:[Save] to complete creation of the share.

> Now, as with other public links, you can copy the link to the share and give it out, as and when necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, as with other public links, you can copy the link to the share and pass it on as necessary.
```

== Using Drop Folders

image::sharing/use-drop-folders.png[Using Drop Folders,width=350]

> When users open the share link, they will see a page where they can either click to select files to share, or drag-and-drop files directly to share them. After the file’s been successfully uploaded, they’ll see (where possible) a preview of the file that has been uploaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users open the share link, they will see a page where they can either click to select files to share, or drag-and-drop files directly to share them. After a file has been successfully uploaded, a preview of the file will be displayed (if possible).
```
